6-0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Piper
And I'm Neil
Now Neil, have you ever wanted to be a musician?
Oh yes, Piper. I still want to be a musician. I've been playing my guitar since I was 14
Wow, well maybe one day you're your manager
Who knows? What about you?
I don't think I'd like to be a musician. I think it would be a bit stressful, especially if you had lots of fans and more really successful
Hmm, yeah, I wonder what life as a musician is actually like
We'll be finding that out in this program as we hear from some people around the UK who would like to become successful musicians
And we'll even listen to some of their music too
But first, I have a question for you, Neil
In the UK, we have a weekly chart of the best selling songs in the country
And the top selling song is called The Number One
But which musical artist do you think has had the most UK Number One songs?
Is it A, The Beatles, B, Ed Jiren, or C, Elvis Presley?
Oh well, I think that's easy. It must be surely The Beatles
Well, I'll reveal the answer at the end of the program
Now, getting a Number One song is a dream for many musicians
But if you want to become a musician, where do you start?
I grew up in a really rich music scene in St. Ives
I was going to open mics from the age of about 11
This is Bailey
She lives in St. Ives in Cornwall on the southwest coast of England
She says she was going to open mic nights from a young age
She says she's going to open mic nights
Our events where anyone can sing or play music
Bailey talked about her life as a musician
To BBC Learning English program, my song, my home
I would go to the songwriter circles at the Catalan Wink
On a Friday night after school
Where I'd be like the youngest person by 50 years
But I'd sit in a circle of a bunch of old men
And they play James Taylor and Carol King and the Eagles
And lots of 70s music and I guess that's influenced me massively
But I guess everyone kind of took me under the wing growing up
When she was younger, Bailey went to songwriters circles
These are meetings for people interested in writing their own music
Bailey remembers sitting with a bunch of old men
A bunch is an informal way to talk about a group of people
The older men in the group would play music from the 1970s
And Bailey says they took her under their wing
If you take somebody under your wing, you decide to protect them or guide them
Let's meet another musician, Josh
So I learnt my first proper song on guitar
When I was about 13, I literally started busking
At the moment I could kind of do that
Josh lives in London and is a busker
This means that he performs on the street or in public places to earn money
Busking is a common way for musicians to make money and perform to more people
And as Josh told BBC Learning English program my song, my home
It can help musicians to get new opportunities
It's been kind of like my main earner
Just kept me going for the last 10 or so years
From that it's then got me various different opportunities
It's got me all my gigs, got me all my connections
So I owe a lot to busking
His name is Josh's main earner, it's his main source of money
He says that busking has got him all his gigs and connections
Gigs are musical concerts and it's an informal slang word
Josh says he owes a lot to busking
If you owe a lot to someone or something, you have success or happiness
Because of that personal thing
So would you like to listen to some of Josh's music?
Of course I would
Well, here's a bit of his song that side of the wall
Which he performed for BBC Learning English program, my song, my home
Can you live me something?
Can you live it by the door?
So I know there's something to song
And that side of the wall
Stop it from coming
Because I always like the code
And it's up in the air
And that side of the wall
Wow, Josh is pretty good isn't he?
I'd love to hear more
Well, you can find performances by the musicians in the series on our website
BBCLanningEnglish.com
And we'll also put a link in the notes below this episode
Okay, so what about your question, Pipper?
Yes, I asked which artist had the most number one songs in the UK charts
The Beatles Edgerian or Elvis Presley
And you said the Beatles Neil
But the answer is actually Elvis Presley
He's had 21 number one songs
And the Beatles have had 18
Really?
Well, that's okay. I love the king as well
Okay
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned in this musical episode
Starting with Open Mike Nights
Events where anyone can sing or play music
Some writer circles are meeting for people interested in writing their own music
A bunch of people is a group of people
The expression takes someone under your wing means to protect or guide someone
Basking is performing in a public place for money
And a busker is someone who performs on the street for money
Your main owner is your main source of income
Gigs are musical concerts
And the expression to owe a lot to someone or something
Means to have success or happiness because of that personal thing
Once again, our six minutes are up that you can find my song My Home on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
Watch the songs in Sing Along and learn more about the vocabulary and the lyrics
We'll see you again soon for some more trending topics and useful vocabulary
Bye for now
Goodbye
6-Mute English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com